Design & Development:
Gremlin Project, a board game design studio by Simone Romano and Nunzio Surace
Art:
Fernando Peniche
Art Direction:
Gremlin Project
Graphic Design & Layout:
Adriano D’ippolito & Francesca Michelon
(www.matrioskart.it)
Sculpture Design:
Raffaele Stumpo
Map Design:
Mario Barbati
(0onegames.com)
Editing and Supervision:
Roberto Di Meglio, Fabio Maiorana and Fabrizio Rolla
English VERSION Editing:
Jim Long
Production:
Roberto Di Meglio
Contributing Playtesters:
Lucio AbBate, Fabrizio Barberini, Alessio Bonvini, Marco Brugnoni, Massimiliano Cretara,
Sara Erriu, Richard Ham, Carmine Laudiero, Federico Luison “Kentervin”, Roberto Manzoni,
Monica Menichini, Leonardo Nati, Daniele “Kinder” Rea, LEONARDO RINA, and… Sally & Sunny!
Special thanks to Serena Galli, Gianni La Rocca, Marco Signore, Claudio Quaranta,
Andrea Fanhoni, christoph cianci, Fabio Gasparini, Stefano Castelli, Andrea Ligabue,
Claudio Garofalo, Laurence O’Brien, Alessio Molteni, Massimiliano Calimera (gioconomicon.
net), Marco Moia and all our families and friends.
A Game Created By GREMLIN PROJECT
www.gremlinproject.com
Published and Distributed Worldwide by ARES GAMES SRL
via dei metalmeccanici 16, 55041, capezzano pianore (LU), Italy
www.aresgames.eu
2

tables of contents
1 introduction 5
2 game components 5
3 game overview 5
4 info & setup 6
5 terrain structure 8
5.1 Types of TERRAIN 9
5.2 Line of sight [L.O.S.] 10
5.2.1 Human view [Optional Rule, Default=ON] 10
5.3 SETTING UP THE Battlefield 11
6 game sequence 11
6.1 Refresh Phase 12
6.2 Strategy Phase 12
6.2.1 Alpha Agent Promotion 12
6.2.2 Getting GD-Wings 12
6.2.3 Reinforcements 13
6.2.4 Mission Status Check 13
6.3 Battle Phase 13
6.3.1 Agent Turn 13
6.3.2 Aliens Turn 13
6.4 Event Phase & Event Card 14
7 the agents 15
7.1 Classes 15
7.1.1 Marine 15
7.1.2 BIOTECH 15
7.1.3 Infiltrator 15
7.1.4 Sniper 15
7.1.5 HULK 15
7.2 Movement 16
7.3 Combat 16
7.3.1 Friendly Fire [Optional Rule, Default=OFF] 18
7.3.2 Close Fight [Optional Rule, Default=OFF] 19
7.4 Action 19
7.4.1 Use Powers and Items 19
7.4.2 Evade 19
7.4.3 Leap Through Window 19
7.4.4 Bash a Locked door 20
7.4.5 Search 20
7.4.6 Tactical Redeployment 20
7.4.7 Unjam a Ranged Weapon 21
7.4.8 Mission Special Actions 21
7.5 Agent’s Conditions 21
7.5.1 Health points 21
7.5.2 Bleeding 21
7.5.3 Death 21
7.5.3.1 Permanent Death [Optional Rule, Default=OFF] 21
7.5.4 Engaged in Combat 22
7.5.5 Immobilized [Body Condition] 22
7.5.6 Paralyzed [Body Condition] 22
7.6 Weapons 23
7.6.1 Melee Weapons 23
7.6.2 Ranged Weapons 23
7.6.3 Healing Weapons 23
3

7.6.4 Improved Weapons 23
7.6.5 Alien Weapons 24
7.6.6 Ammo 24
7.6.7 Energy shielded armor 24
7.7 Power and Items 24
7.7.1 Damage and Special Effects 25
7.7.2 Devices 25
7.7.2.1 Grenades 25
7.7.2.2 Sentry-Gun 26
7.7.3 Tactics 26
7.7.4 Abilities & Skills 26
7.7.4.1 Guard 27
7.7.4.2 GD-209 27
7.8 GD-WINGS 27
7.9 Alien Tech 28
8 the aliens 29
8.1 Alien Species 29
8.1.1 Alien I - Classified: Xeno-beta 29
8.1.2 Alien II - Classified: Spine Critter 29
8.1.3 Alien III - Classified: Xeno-Alpha 29
8.1.4 Alien IV - Classified: Aracnos 29
8.1.5 Alien V - Classified: Xeno-Grey 30
8.1.6 Alien VI - Classified: Nexus 30
8.1.7 Alien VII - Not Classified: Xeno-Beast 30
8.2 Biological Alien Structure [Alien Cards] 30
8.3 Alien Activation [Close-encounter cards] 32
8.4 Swarm Units 32
8.5 Signal 33
8.5.1 Signal Movement 33
8.6 Teleport System 34
8.6.1 Teleporting Aliens 34
8.7 Reveal Signals 34
8.8 Alien Assignment 35
8.9 Alien Movement 35
8.10 Alien Combat 37
8.11 Alien Death 37
4

1 Introduction
Welcome soldier!
If you are reading this document, it means that your physical or mental capabilities are excellent
and our planet needs you!
You are joining a secret agency responsible for detecting and stopping alien activity on Earth... keep
reading, if you dare, but keep in mind two simple rules:
They are already here
They are not friendly!
You will be part of an elite team formed by up to 5 agents involved in critical, tactical missions.
You will encounter hostile aliens, so be prepared to engage them with no mercy.
2 Game Components
Inside your Galaxy Defenders box you will find an extensive set of components:
This Rulebook Tokens and markers:
1Storybook 10Improved Weapons
28Plastic figures 10Alien Weapons
6Double-sided map tiles 1Alpha Agent
5Attack/Defense BLUE dice 10Basic Tactics
5Improved Attack RED dice 10Improved Tactics
5Agent Profile Sheets 23Devices
5Quick Reference Guides 15Skills
22Event cards 40Wounds
32Close-Encounter cards 32Ammo
22Alien cards 20Shields
4Alien Tech Fragments
6Human Signals
9Alien Signals
2Guard
5Paralyzed/Immobilized
4Land Mines/Flames
4Waypoints
10Locked/Blocked
12Jam
1Improved/Alien Armory
4Teleport Points
1Alien NPC
3Door Teleport Hexes Overlays
2Area Map Overlays
202xHexes Map Overlays
12xHexes Sally/Sunny
3Galaxy Balls
3 Game overview
Galaxy Defenders is a cooperative, tactical battle game in which 1 to 5 players fight together against
an oncoming alien menace.
Each player takes control of one agent with unique powers to defend the planet from the alien invasion.
The battle for the Earth will be carried out in a completely story-driven campaign against an alien
race controlled by the game system itself.
Each mission may have multiple endings and the outcome of a mission will change the flow of the Story.
Agents gain experience during missions. Experience can be used to transform a good soldier into a
perfect Galaxy Defenders agent with multiple skills, basic and improved tactics, and the ability to
use new devices such as advanced human weapons and alien technology.
5

4 Info & Setup
The game includes two manuals:
Rulebook: Provides information and the
rules of the game.
Storybook: Contains the rules and the
description of the Missions.
This Rulebook is divided into 3 sections:
General [GREEn background]
Agents [BLUE background]
Aliens [RED background]
Each section provides information about the
mission rules.
The board game setup depends entirely upon the
campaign and mission you want to play. All setup
instructions are covered in the Storybook manual,
but for a quick setup we suggest organizing the
game components this way:
Each player chooses or randomly selects an Agent
Profile Sheet and takes the relevant figure.
Depending on the campaign/mission rules, each
player takes the chosen tactics, devices, and
skills. The number of available powers and items
depends on each mission and is limited by the
availability of the tokens in the Warehouse [that
is, the game box]. Each agent starts the mission
in full health state and full ammo.
If a player wants to play with more than one
agent, each agent must act independently, as
if it is controlled by a different player. For
instance, a person who controls 3 agents on the
map counts as 3 operative players.
note: A player is considered operative as long as
his agent is alive.
The Storybook will provide instructions to:
Arrange the map tiles.
Prepare and shuffle the events deck.
Prepare and shuffle the Close enCounter deck.
Prepare and shuffle the alien deck.
Place figures, signals and tokens on the
battlefield.
In general, please remember, all rules detailed
on cards or items take priority over this rulebook
and may change or replace what is written here.
To optimize space and improve the game experience,
we suggest using the layout in these pages:
6

1.Agent Profile Sheet
2.Alien cards and discard pile
3.Close Encounter cards and discard pile
4.Event cards, Weather Event in play
and discard pile
5.Signal Reserve and discard pile
6.Device
7.Skill
8.Basic and Improved Tactics
9.Improved Weapon
10.Alien Weapon
11.Agent figure
12.Alien figure
13.Teleport Points
14.Wounds and Ammo markers
15.Other tokens and markers
7

5 Terrain structure
The battle for Earth rages across cities, deserts, and other grounds, possibly up to the alien ship
itself, so agents must be prepared for any environment!
Each map tile is made up of two elements:
hex: is the small hexagon on the map. It is used mainly for agents’ movement and melee combat.
area: is formed by 7 hexes and can be recognized by two main components:
The center hex of each area has a sight printed on it.
It has thick white borders.
The area has several uses in the game: determining distance [ = adjacent, = up to 1 area...]
moving aliens and signals, for ranged combat, and so on.
RANGE AND DISTANCE examples
Each map tile may include different buildings, ground objects, and items.
note: the edge of the map contains partial hexagons [called edge hex]. These hexagons are not used in
the game.
hex area room
hexes are used to regulate An area is a group of
A room is an area [or a
movement and combat. 7 hexes and is used to
part of it] enclosed
Each hex may only contain calculate distances and
with doors and/or WindoWs.
one figure or one signal. for alien movement.
8

5.1 Types of TERRAIN
A map tile may contain several different types of terrain:
standard: a standard hex may be crossed normally by agents and aliens.
BloCked hex side: a thick colored/black line may not be crossed and blocks
Line of Sight [l.o.s., see section 5.2, page 10]. hexes which are
separated by a blocked hex side are not considered to be adjacent.
note: The color of the line [yellow in the example] may vary, based on
the map background.
door: may be crossed normally. Blocks l.o.s., unless the attacker is in
the hex adjacent to the door symbol [or in the hex with the door symbol,
if the door is not on a hex side].
loCked door: when locked, a door is equivalent to a blocked hex side [see
above]. The lock can be removed with the special action “Bash loCked door.”
Once the lock is removed, it becomes a normal door.
BloCked door/WindoW: a mission may indicate that a door or window is
blocked. Place a token on the board to indicate this status. A blocked
door/window is equivalent to a blocked hex side [see above). A blocked
token cannot be removed by agents, except as indicated by the mission
special actions.
WindoW: may be crossed with the special action “leap through WindoW.” A window
does not block l.o.s.
edge hex: a half hex at the edge of the board may not be crossed and blocks
l.o.s.
Walking across any non-BloCked hex or hex side represents a legal walking
path. Attempting to move across a blocked hex side or edge hex represents
an illegal walking path and is not allowed to agents, aliens, or signals.
9

5.2 Line of Sight [L.O.S.]
The term Line of Sight [l.o.s.] refers to visibility of a target or other element on the battlefield.
If you can trace a straight line between the center of the source hex and the center of the destination
hex, without crossing a BloCked hex or a door [unless the attacker is in the hex adjacent to the door symbol,
or in a door hex], then you have a legal l.o.s.
Attacks, combat items, and powers may only be performed/used against a target within l.o.s. except
where indicated differently.
LINE OF SIGHT EXAMPLES
The white hexes represent the field of view.
5.2.1 Human View [Optional Rule, Default=ON]
This optional rule may be introduced to restrict the agents field of view to the front 180°, instead
of 360°. The front of a figure is indicated by a notch on the figure’s base.
In addition to all normal l.o.s. rules, when tracing l.o.s. from a human agent, only the 3 front hexes
of the figure may be used.
This rule does not change the rules on revealing signals [see “Reveal Signal”, section 8.7, page 34];
when revealing a signal, normal l.o.s. rules are used.
note: The battle drones GD-209 and Sentry-Gun always have a 360° view of the battlefield.
HUMAN VIEW EXAMPLE
The white hexes represent the field of view.
10

5.3 SETTING UP THE BATTLEFIELD
The “Mission Setup” section of each mission in the Storybook
contains all instructions to build-up the battlefield, with the
designated map tiles and tokens.
Map tiles are printed on two sides and may be combined in many
different ways. If a scenario shows a map tile as separate from the
others, it represents an area which can only be accessed using the
scenario’s special events.
6 Game sequence
Galaxy Defenders is played over a variable number of rounds, defined in each mission. Each round is
subdivided into the following phases:
1]refresh
Powers & Items refresh
2] strategy
alpha agent promotion
Getting gd-Wings
Reinforcements
Mission Status check
3] Battle [For each operative Player]
Agent Turn
aCtion
movement
ComBat
hit roll
defend roll
Aliens Turn
Draw Close enCounter card
Aliens activation
movement & ComBat, or
teleport
4] event
Draw event card
Resolve event card effects
The game continues, round after round, until the mission ending conditions are met:
Mission Accomplished
Mission Partially Accomplished
Mission Failed
note: A player is considered operative as long as his agent is alive. If an agent dies, his player
becomes inoperative.
11

6.1 Refresh Phase
In this phase, there is only one main step:
Powers & Items refresh: Most powers and items [see section 7.7 page 24] may be used only once
per round, and they cannot be used again until they are refreshed during this phase.
All powers and items are refreshed simultaneously. The most common effects in this phase are:
Skills refresh [flip up used skills]
energy shielded armor refresh [regain used energy shield token]
“Guard” refresh [place a guard token near the figure]
6.2 Strategy Phase
In this phase, players must cooperate to plan a sound strategy to face the round.
This phase includes 4 steps:
alpha agent promotion
Getting gd-Wings
Reinforcements
Mission Status check
6.2.1 ALPHA AGENT Promotion
The players must choose their leader for the round. Beginning immediately, the operative agent
is called alpha agent. The player controlling this agent gains the alpha agent token until the
next strategy phase. inoperative players [i.e. dead agents] cannot be chosen for the role of
the Alpha Agent.
The alpha agent has additional duties! He will:
Establish the playing order: The alpha agent acts as the first player. He is the first to play
his Agent and Aliens turns. Other players take their turns in clockwise order, following the
alpha agent.
In the event phase: Draw the event card and apply its effects.
Be the leader: Sometimes he must make decisions for the entire team, for instance, during any
disagreement between teammates.
The team must have an alpha agent. If the alpha agent dies on the battlefield during the round, the next
agent in clockwise order becomes the alpha agent and his player obtains the alpha agent token until the
next strategy phase.
If players cannot agree who will become the alpha agent, follow this ranking order:
1. Marine
2. Biotech
3. Infiltrator
4. Sniper
5. Hulk
6.2.2 Getting GD-Wings
In this step, operative agents may roll to obtain a new gd-Wings rank, which means a bigger salary and,
oh yeah, a new power!
If the agents killed at least one alien in the previous round, then, starting with the alpha agent, in
clockwise order, they may attempt the gd-Wings roll [see section 7.8, page 27].
note: Dead agents cannot roll to obtain a new gd-Wings rank.
12

6.2.3 Reinforcements
Rock ‘n’ Roll!!! Sometimes, during a mission, the Agency will help the agents by sending them new
“toys.” To represent this, the alpha agent can send 4 fragments of alien teCh [see section 7.9, page 28]
gathered during the mission back to base [that is, discard] to receive either:
One selected generiC deviCe
One random improved Weapon
If a device is chosen, the agent can pick any one device from those available in the Warehouse [the
game box]. If a weapon is chosen, place all the suitable improved Weapon tokens [that is, the generiC ones
and the weapons specific to the class of the agents in play] in a cup and randomly draw one. The new
weapon is provided with full ammo.
note: Use the same random procedure when a new alien Weapon is delivered.
The device or the weapon obtained may be directly transferred to any one agent on the map, with the
agreement of the alpha agent.
6.2.4 Mission Status Check
Finally, players must check if the mission ends with a victory or defeat. Check the conditions in the
“Objectives” section of the mission, starting at the top of the table. The first matching condition
indicates if the mission is successful or not. Ignore the conditions after the first one that matches.
6.3 Battle Phase
During the Battle phase, each operative player sequentially plays [as active player] his agent turn and then
one aliens turn. After that, the play passes to the next player.
Starting with the alpha agent, players carry out their turns [agent and aliens] in clockwise order until
the last player finishes his aliens turn.
note: inoperative players do not affect the battle phase. They must skip both Agent and Aliens turns.
6.3.1 Agent Turn
During his turn, the agent may perform three different activities:
movement
ComBat
aCtion
These activities may be performed in any order, and each activity may only be performed once per turn.
It is not possible to interrupt, and later resume, movement to perform ComBat; or to interrupt, and later
resume, ComBat to perform movement. However, it is sometimes possible to perform an aCtion during movement
or ComBat [for example, to use a power or item to improve a hit or defend roll].
Some special actions [see section 7.4, page 19] may require the use of both aCtion and ComBat or both
aCtion and movement.
The agent turn ends when either all the three activities have been performed, or when the agent cannot
[or will not] perform any other activity.
6.3.2 Aliens Turn
The active player must draw a Close enCounter card [see section 8.3, page 32] from the Close enCounter deck
to determine what happens in the aliens turn. Usually, a Close enCounter card activates one or more aliens
on the battlefield based on their type or color rank. Once the Close enCounter card is resolved and all
the involved aliens have been activated, or when there are no aliens to activate, the aliens turn ends
and the next agent turn begins.
When the last player has completed his aliens turn, the event phase begins.
The normal sequence of an aliens turn is:
The active player draws a Close enCounter card.
Aliens are activated according to the drawn card.
Activated aliens perform their movement & ComBat [based on their alien cards] or teleport.
The Close enCounter card is discarded to the relative discard pile.
13

6.4 Event Phase & Event Card
During this phase, several things may happen: the weather may change, some signals may move, and new
signals may be detected by the Galaxy Defenders sensor array.
The normal sequence of an event phase is:
The alpha agent draws the first event card from
the event deck.
All the effects on the event card are resolved
in the exact order in which they appear and
signals in l.o.s. with agents are revealed.
There are 3 types of event card:
Standard Event: the effects are resolved as
described on the card. When all the effects have
been resolved, the card is discarded.
Special Event: represents a key point in the
mission. The Storybook describes what happens
when the event is resolved for the mission.
Weather Event: is resolved like a Standard
Event, but the Weather effeCt remains in play
until another Weather Event is drawn. The new
Weather Event replaces the current one, which
is discarded.
Most event cards include the teleport of new signals
to the battlefield.
To maintain game balance, the number of signals
teleported may depend on the number of Agents in
play:
Signal Teleport Table
1. number of Signals to teleport
2. number of agents in play
Or it may depend on a comparison between the
number of Aliens and Agents in play:
In this example, if the number of aliens in
play [ ] is lower than [ ] the number of
agents [ ], then new signals are teleported
based on the Signal Teleport Table, otherwise
nothing happens.
Sometimes signals are teleported [or moved] into
1. Event ID - identify the event card. the line of sight of an agent: in this case,
2. Event name - card name they are immediately identified and revealed [see
3. Effects - event effects section 8.7, page 34], before any other effect
4. Aliens Balance Formula - used to balance to is resolved.
the game The movement of a revealed signal ends immediately.
5. Signal Teleport Table – new signals to be
teleported on the map, based on the number
of agents in play
14

7 The Agents
This section details the agents and their actions on the battlefield.
Each agent has his own agent profile sheet, with the following information:
1. ID – name, class, and status
2. Tactics slot – slot for basic and improved tactics
3. Ability – agent’s innate ability
4. Armor – agent’s defense power
5. Primary Weapon – high-power weapon
6. Secondary Weapon - low-power weapon
7. Health Points – agent’s full health status
8. Movement – maximum movement [in hexes] per turn
9. Energy Shield – rechargeable energy shielded armor, available only on elite agents
The back of the sheet is used when the agent reaches palladium rank [see section 7.8, page 27], gaining
Elite status, thereby gaining improved statistics and energy shielded armor... Yes soldier, this should
be your goal!
7.1 Classes
7.1.1 marine [AGENT CHROMIUM]
Coming from U.S. Special Forces, the Marine is an excellent soldier who can manage
different combat situations, especially multiple enemies. He has average movement ability
and firepower.
7.1.2 biotech [AGENT THORIUM]
The Biotech is the most technologically adept agent in service. He can use Nano-Technology
to heal wounds or control war drones. He also likes a bit of old-fashioned style… in fact,
he always has his trusty shotgun for dangerous close encounters!
7.1.3 Infiltrator [AGENT MERCURY]
A deadly and stealthy agent. This lethal specialist prefers hiding in the shadows. She
has fast movement and good short-range combat ability.
7.1.4 Sniper [AGENT IRIDIUM]
A silent sharpshooter and expert in camouflage and ranged combat. The sniper has average
movement and excellent long-range firepower.
7.1.5 hulk [AGENT TITANIUM]
The Hulk was a successful mercenary and now is one of the best agents; although slow, he
enjoys an extraordinary resistance to damage and has high firepower.
15

7.2 movement
During his turn, each agent may move up to his movement value through any non-BloCked hex or hex side on
the map, spending one movement point for each hex.
During movement, each agent must follow these rules:
Move no more than one hex for each movement point.
May not cross a BloCked hex or hex side, or an edge hex.
May not cross a hex occupied by an alien figure.
May cross a hex occupied by other agents [or friendly drones], but cannot end his movement in
such a hex.
An edge hex cannot be used for any reason.
An agent is not permitted to interrupt movement to perform an attack and then resume movement.
Agent’s conditions [see section 7.5, page 21], events, powers and items can modify or prevent the
movement of an agent.
note: If the “Human View” rule is enabled, the player may freely rotate the agent figure to look in
any direction at the end of his movement.
7.3 combat
This is the most exciting part of the game! Many factors can influence combat:
blue die red die weapons, powers, items, and, last but not least, luck, because even the most
expert soldier needs a bit of luck during the battle...
Combat is divided in two different rolls:
Hit: Represents the attempt to hit the target.
Attack/ Improved
BLUE or RED dice are used in the roll, as shown on the weapon used.
Defence Attack
The attacker selects his target and weapon, and then rolls the number of dice
indicated by the weapon. A [hit] result indicates a successful hit.
The more , the better! If any die shows a [Bolt] result, also apply the weapon’s or power’s
effect. If any die shows a [Jam] result, a ranged weapon is jammed and cannot be used again
until it is unjammed [see section 7.4.7, page 21]. Place a Jam token on the weapon as a reminder.
Defend: Represents the attempt to avoid a successful hit. The skin, armor, and
skills of the defender enter play to try to avoid or parry the damage!
The defender rolls 1 BLUE die for each successful result rolled by the
attacker in the hit roll, and cancels one for each successful [shield] result
rolled. If any die shows a result, also apply the armor’s Bolt effect[if any].
energy energy
shielded shield
For each remaining result, deal one wound to the defender’s health points.
armor Token If the defender has energy shielded armor, he must first cancel hits by removing one
point of energy shield for each , before rolling the defense dice.
Any remaining results are defended as normal by rolling the BLUE dice.
A effect is only applied once, no matter how many are rolled, unless explicitly noted. For
example, the armor Bolt effect of Agent Titanium’s armor counts each rolled as a .
An attack may never target an empty hex or area. For example, you are not allowed to target an empty
hex/area to hit an enemy out of l.o.s. with area damage.
The game does not account for friendly fire, so it is never possible for an agent to target [except
with healing weapons] and/or harm another agent, even with area damage, unless the “Friendly Fire”
optional rule [see 7.3.1, page 18] is enabled.
IMPORTAnT note: Some weapons, powers and items directly influence combat, by modifying the number of
attacker and/or defender dice rolled or by allowing a dice re-roll. In these cases, a die cannot be
re-rolled more than once, even if multiple powers and items might be used to affect the roll.
Do you want to make the combat quicker and more spectacular?
Try the new optional rule called Rank based Defense to limit the defend roll. See section 5.4 [page 8]
of the Storybook.
16

Here is a summary of the meaning of the symbols appearing on the dice [and how often they appear]:
| symbol | name                                                  | description | blUE die | red die |
| ------ | ----------------------------------------------------- | ----------- | -------- | ------- |
|        | hit Indicates a successful hit. No effect on defense. |             | X5       | X7      |
Indicates a successful defense. No effect on attack.
|     | SHIELD |     | X4  | -   |
| --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- |
BOLT Activate the Bolt effect of the used weapon or power [by the
|     |     |     | X2  | X3  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
attacker] or armor [by the defender].
No effect on attack or defense. Used by agents to get the
|     | gd  |     | -   | X2  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
gd-Wings Rank-Up [see section 7.8, page 27].
The agent must discard one ammo token [max one ammo token per
hit roll]. Ignore this result when using a melee weapon, or
|     | ammo |     | X1  | X1  |
| --- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |
if the weapon automatically discards an ammo token [as with
Agent Titanium’s ranged weapon]. No effect on defense.
This symbol indicates the ranged weapon used in the attack is
jam jammed. After this attack, the weapon may not be used again
|     |     |     | X1  | X1  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
until unjammed. Agents must perform an unJam action to use the
weapon again. No effect on defense.
This symbol indicates a fail result for that die during any
roll. This die result cannot be re-rolled by agents using
|     | alien |     | X1  | X1  |
| --- | ----- | --- | --- | --- |
powers, except when explicitly indicated by the power. An
Alien can re-roll this symbol if it has a re-roll power.
combat example 1
Marine VS BLUE Aracnos
The  Marine  attacks  the  BLUE  4 hits are rolled. One ammo must  One shield is rolled, and another
Aracnos  with  his  Rifle  and  be discarded and the Bolt effect  one is added by the Bolt effect
rolls 3 RED hit dice. is activated, reducing the def  of the alien’s armor [the Bolt
dice of the Aracnos. effect is applied once, even if
Now, the Aracnos rolls 3 BLUE  two Bolts are rolled]. Two hits
def dice instead of 4. are canceled, and 2 Wounds are
inflicted to the alien.
17

combat example 2
Hulk VS BLUE Xeno-Beta
Agent Titanium attacks the Three hits are rolled and, due The Xeno-Beta armor shield token
BLUE Xeno-Beta with his improved to the Jam result, Titanium’s removes the first hit.
Vulcan and rolls 4 RED dice. weapon jams. Only 1 more shield is rolled,
Due to the weapon effect, the so two hits are canceled and
ammo result is ignored, and the 4 wounds are inflicted to the
agent decides to discard 3 ammo alien. The Xeno-Beta dies [as
tokens to add 3 additional hits, the Regenerate Bolt effect must
for a total of 6. be applied before the wounds
are inflicted].
7.3.1 Friendly Fire [Optional Rule, Default=OFF]
By default, the game does not account for friendly fire. To keep the pace of the game fast, we suggest
keeping this rule off, unless you want to make a mission more challenging.
If this rule is enabled, any agent may be targeted [and wounded] by other agents with any weapon,
power, or item.
An agent is immune to his own weapons, but not from his own devices. For example, a Weapon dealing area
damage does not harm the firer, but a grenade or a satellite strike may injure the owner, if he is in the
targeted area.
Friendly fire affects all kinds of agent weapon, power, and item, so you need to be careful when you
fire a weapon with area damage.
FRIENDLY FIRE EXAMPLE
The Marine performs an attack with his Rifle, deciding to discard one ammo to deal area damage.
Each figure in the area must defend against this attack, including the Biotech Agent, when the
Friendly Fire rule is enabled.
18

7.3.2 Close Fight [Optional Rule, Default=OFF]
By default, any agent may attack any alien within range, even when the agent is engaged in melee combat.
If you wish, you can increase the challenge of a mission by enabling this rule. If enabled, an agent
engaged in melee combat may only attack aliens with which he is engaged.
This rule adds a significant realism to the game experience!
7.4 Action
With this activity the agents may use their powers or items. An agent may do only one aCtion in a turn.
While movement and combat can never be intermingled, aCtion can be used either as a separate activity,
or combined together with a movement and ComBat activity.
Combining an aCtion with movement or ComBat may be necessary to perform special actions, or to activate a
power or item to enhance the movement or attack capabilties of the agent.
7.4.1 Use powers and items [ACTION]
Using his aCtion, an agent can activate one standard power or item:
An Ability
A Skill
A Basic or Improved Tactic
A Device
standard powers and items are covered later in the rules [see section 7.7, pages 24-27]. An activated
ability or skill cannot normally be used again until the next refresh phase. Tactics and devices are
normally used once per game.
7.4.2 Leap through Window [ACTION]
With this special action, the agent may leap through a window to reach the other side [for instance,
entering or exiting a building]. Leaping through windows requires only the use of the agent’s aCtion
and is normally done after or before movement.
The agent must be adjacent to a WindoW hex and use his aCtion to leap through the window and move the
agent to the other side of the WindoW hex.
Agent Mercury uses her movement to move 1 hex, adjacent to the WindoW
hex.
Then, she uses her aCtion to leap through WindoW: She enters the
building, and is moved to the hex on the other side of the WindoW.
Since her movement was taken first, she cannot move further.
7.4.3 search [action]
With this action, the agent spends time searching for objects or mission items. Searching requires
only the use of the agent’s aCtion. The agent must be inside a searCh area [as described in the mission’s
“Briefing”], and may not be engaged in combat.
The Agent then rolls 1 . If he rolls a or result, he finds something useful!
19

With a result, he can choose he is finding either a:
1 First Aid Kit - instantly heal the agent for one health point [if possible]. The kit cannot be used
later: For this reason, there is no token to represent it.
1 Ammunition - instantly give to the agent one ammo token [if possible].
With a result, he can choose one of these two items:
1 Random generiC deviCe.
1 Fragment of alien teCh [maximum once per round, see section 7.9, page 28].
Any other die result means no item has been found. The searCh action can be repeated by any agent,
regardless of any previous search attempts or results. When picking up a random device, put all of
the generiC deviCe tokens available from the Warehouse into a cup or bag and randomly take one.
Agent Mercury uses her movement to move 2 hexes. Then, she uses
her aCtion to searCh inside the room.
She rolls a result, and decides she is finding a first aid kit.
She immediately heals one health point.
Since her movement was taken first, she cannot move further.
7.4.4 Bash a Locked Door [ACTION + COMBAT]
With this action, the agent can bash a loCked door, to enter or exit a building.
Bashing a locked door requires the use of both the agent’s aCtion and ComBat. For this reason,
when bashing a locked door, the agent may not use his ComBat to do anything else.
The agent must be in the hex adjacent to the loCked door [or in the loCked door hex] to break the
loCk. Remove the loCk token and treat the door as a normal one.
7.4.5 evade (Action + combat]
An evade special action may be attempted to disengage from close combat with an alien.
Evading requires the use of both the agent’s aCtion and ComBat. For this reason, when attempting to evade,
the agent may not use ComBat to do anything else.
Under normal circumstances it is really hard to flee when your enemy is right in front of you! To
represent this, the agent must roll 1 and obtain a result. If he succeeds, he may move away
using his movement. Otherwise, he remains engaged
with the alien.
7.4.6 TACTICAL REDEPLOYMENT
[ACTION + COMBAT]
There are times when running is better than
shooting!
An agent can choose this special action to move
further than his maximum movement allows.
Tactical redeployment requires the use of both
the agent’s aCtion and ComBat. For this reason, the
agent may not use ComBat to do anything else.
Agent Chromium uses his movement to move 4 hexes.
Reposition the agent in any empty hex inside his Then, he uses his aCtion combined with ComBat to
current area. perform a taCtiCal redeployment inside his current
area. Due to the taCtiCal redeployment, he cannot
attack this turn.
20

7.4.7 Unjam a Ranged Weapon [ACTION + movement or COMBAT]
Sometimes, during a fight, a ranged weapon can become jammed. In this case, the agent can use
either his complete movement or ComBat, as well as use his aCtion, to unjam one of his weapons and
make it ready for use again. The Jam token on the weapon is discarded.
The agent may not use the activity [movement or ComBat] he forfeited to do anything else in this turn.
7.4.8 Mission Special Actions
Some missions indicate that an aCtion activity must be used to perform special actions directly related
to the mission’s accomplishment: For instance, destroy a teleport point or rescue a civilian.
7.5 Agent’s Conditions
In battle, the physical and mental conditions of a soldier change often, mostly as a result of combat.
7.5.1 Health Points
Each agent begins the mission in a full health state.
During the battle, alien attacks may inflict Wounds, decreasing the health status of an agent, who
becomes Wounded. To keep track of current health, when an agent is wounded, place an appropriate
number of Wounds [using the numbered Wound tokens) on the agent profile sheet.
If an agent suffers an attack that brings his total health points [hps] to 0 or below, his condition
changes to Bleeding. The number of hps can never exceed the number printed on the agent profile sheet.
7.5.2 bleeding
A Bleeding agent has a limited operational capability. While in this state, he must follow these rules:
He must forfeit his ComBat.
His movement is reduced to one hex.
He can use his aCtion only to activate one power or item.
A Bleeding agent can be represented on the battlefield by laying the relevant figure on its side.
A Bleeding agent may return to healthy state if at least one wound is healed [any wounds not healed
remain on the agent]. As a reminder, raise up the agent figure.
The Bleeding agent is still considered a menace by the aliens. He can still be attacked [defending
normally].
If a Bleeding agent suffers any further wound, he dies.
7.5.3 death
When the agent dies, his player becomes temporarily inoperative and no longer interacts with other agents
or aliens. He skips his Agent and Aliens turns for the current game round, and until he returns operative.
During this time period, his figure is removed from the map and the agent immediately loses 1 gd-Wings
rank [if possible]. During subsequent strategy phases, at the beginning of the reinforCements step, the
inoperative player can become operative by spending [i.e., discarding] 1 alien teCh fragment [see section 7.9,
page 28] and then, placing the agent figure back on the map over any gd start hex of the battlefield.
note: This means that an inoperative player cannot be selected as the alpha agent and cannot enhance
gd-Wings ranks while in this state.
An inoperative player must skip his Aliens turn, even if there are aliens in play, but he is still part
of the normal alien assignment rules [see 8.8, page 35]. He must play his assigned aliens, however,
if activated during other Aliens turns.
Important note: Do not count inoperative players in the signal teleport taBle of event cards.
If all the players become inoperative, the mission fails and the game ends immediately.
7.5.3.1 Permanent Death [Optional Rule, Default=OFF]
Players who really want to taste the true challenge can enable this rule and make the death permanent
for the entire mission. A dead agent may return to the campaign, but without any previous ranks
obtained; thus, starting his next mission at Copper rank. Any researched/owned weapon is retained and
can be used again by this agent.
21

7.5.4 Engaged In Combat
An agent becomes engaged in combat if he starts his turn or ends his movement adjacent to an alien [that is,
at distance ]. He is also considered engaged in combat if he comes in contact with an alien in any
moment outside the agent turn.
An agent engaged in combat cannot move or leave the combat until:
The alien is killed.
A successful evade special action is performed.
note: Some skills can also be used to leave the combat, such as Agent Titanium’s “Charge” skill.
note: If the “Human View” rule is enabled, the player may freely rotate the agent figure to look in
any direction at the end of his movement, even when engaged in combat.
7.5.5 Immobilized [Body Condition]
An immoBilized agent forfeits movement until the next refresh phase. This means the agent cannot move, and he may
not use any action that requires movement.
7.5.6 Paralyzed [Body Condition]
A paralyzed agent must skip his entire turn until the next refresh phase. paralyzed also counts as immoBilized.
7.6 weapons
Every war has its weapons and this one is for the salvation of the human race, so you know they’re epic!
Each agent starts his career with two standard Weapons [printed on the agent profile sheet] at full ammo capacity.
A typical weapon token is shown below.
There are three types of weapons:
Melee weapons, used in close combat.
Ranged weapons, used mainly in ranged combat.
Healing weapons, used to heal other agents.
Many weapons grant one or more powers during the combat, either as
Bolt effects or additional powers.
The most common effects are:
+X hit diCe: increase the number of dice in the hit roll.
+X : adds X hits results to the hit roll.
-X def diCe: reduce the number of dice used by the defender
in the defend roll.
area damage: the attack affects all targets in the area; each
target must defend separately against the rolled hits.
The weapon’s efficiency is classified in three color-coded ranks:
GREEn: standard Weapon with basic powers.
1. ID – name, rank, and class
BLUE: improved Weapon; enhanced version of a normal weapon.
restriction.
RED: alien Weapon technology; extremely powerful, but
difficult to manage without appropriate training!
2. Attack Values – weapon type,
dice color and number to use
in the hit roll.
During missions the agents may obtain new weapons, including improved
3. Range – maximum allowed range.
Weapons and alien Weapons. These weapons replace the standard ones. Each
agent must choose which of his two current weapons will be replaced
4. Ammo – maximum number of ammo
by the new acquisition.
tokens.
5. Bolt Effect – power activated
An agent is not required to use a new weapon he finds. [For
by any Bolt result during the
hit roll.
instance: an agent may choose not to receive a new alien Weapon,
because he does not have the “Alien Knowledge” skill.] In this
6. Additional Powers – special
powers of the weapon.
case, the weapon will be transferred to gd headquarter and will be
available for the next missions of the campaign. In a standalone
mission, simply return the refused weapon back to the game box.
Additional details on weapons and their use will be found in the next sections.
22

7.6.1 Melee weapons
Melee weapons are identified by the symbol and can be used to perform melee attacks, which deal melee
damage.
1. ID – name, rank, and class restriction.
2. Attack values – weapon type, dice color and number to
use in the hit roll.
3. Range – maximum allowed range [normally ].
4. Ammo – maximum number of ammo tokens.
5. Bolt effect – power activated by any Bolt result during
the hit roll.
Melee weapons do not use ammo and never jam, so ignore any or result during the hit roll.
7.6.2 Ranged Weapons
Ranged weapons are identified by the symbol and can be used to perform ranged attacks, which deal
ranged damage.
1. ID – name, rank, and class restriction.
2. Attack values – weapon type, dice color and number to
use in the hit roll.
3. Range – maximum allowed range.
4. Ammo – maximum number of ammo tokens.
5. Bolt effect – power activated by any Bolt result during
the hit roll.
An attack performed with a ranged weapon against an adjacent target [ distance] is still considered a
ranged attack.
7.6.3 Healing Weapons
All healing weapons are identified by the symbol and are used by agents to heal Wounds instead of dealing
damage. Healing weapons are the only weapons that allow agents to target other agents and themselves. These
weapons typically heal one Wound for each rolled. Keep track of the number of Wounds remaining using the
numbered Wound tokens.
7.6.4 improved Weapons
The Agency works hard to improve its equipment. In fact, during reinforCements, agents can request improvements
for their weapons by spending gathered alien teCh [see section 7.9, page 28]. The new weapon received will
replace one of the two weapons currently in use by one of the agents.
Many improved Weapons are limited to specific roles, as each class has its own specific weapons.
23

7.6.5 alien Weapons
To face the alien invasion, GD scientists are learning how to interface alien technology with human weapons.
This means agents may be equipped with alien Weapons, but there is always a downside. These new weapons are
difficult to use without specific training.
To represent this limitation, if an agent uses an alien Weapon without the “Alien Knowledge” skill, then any
or results in the hit roll indicate a totally failed attack [any success results rolled on the other
dice are ignored].
If an agent has a re-roll power applying to alien results, a re-roll can still be used to avoid failure. An
expert agent with the “Alien Knowledge” skill follows the normal combat rules.
Ranged alien Weapons do not need ammo [they use self-recharging plasma energy Bolts] and cannot Jam.
note: The “Lasergun” alien Weapon is a generiC Weapon. For this reason, it can be used by any agent as a replacement
for one of his current weapons, but it still requires the “Alien Knowledge” skill to use normally without
the limitations indicated above.
7.6.6 ammo
Each human ranged weapon uses ammunition. To represent this, place the indicated number of ammo
tokens on the weapon card [a “2” token is equivalent to two “1” tokens].
Ammunition is discarded when a result is rolled [maximum one token per hit roll] or when a
power indicates to do so.
Some ranged weapons have a limited supply of ammunition. To shoot with these weapons, you need
at least 1 ammo token available on the weapon.
7.6.7 Energy Shielded Armor
Advanced armor may have an energy shield for additional protection against combat damage.
The symbol or identifies the presence of such a shield.
During the refresh phase, each energy shielded armor regenerates its shield token.
Place the appropriate token [ or ] on the Armor symbol. A “2” token is equivalent to two “1” tokens.
note: As described in the ComBat section [see section 7.3, page 16], shield tokens must be removed to cancel
one successful each, before rolling the defense dice. A “2” token is reduced to “1” when cancelling the
first , and removed when cancelling the second .
7.7 Powers and items
Powers and items are divided into 3 color-coded categories:
standard: the power or item can be used once during the agent turn using his aCtion.
passive: the power or item is always active and does not require an aCtion.
reaCtion: the power can be activated outside of the agent’s turn; it does not need an aCtion.
All abilities, devices, tactics, and skills are considered standard except where specified.
To keep track of the use of a standard or reaCtion power or item, it may be either flipped [skills and tactics],
discarded [device], or a token can be used to indicate the relevant power or item [for example, the “Guard”
ability].
Powers and items can be generiC [usable by any agent, without class restrictions], or strictly linked to a
specific class.
24

7.7.1 Damage and special effects
Some powers and items can perform attacks and/or deal damage. The attack/damage dealt to the target is
considered BasiC damage except where indicated.
Basic attacks and damage are NOT identified by , or any specific symbol. They are defended as usual,
but they do not trigger items or powers granting benefits against a particular type of attack or damage.
For instance, the “Acid Poison” power of the Spine Critter alien does not trigger Agent Mercury’s armor
Bolt effect [granting her protection against melee attacks], even when the Spine Critter dies adjacent to
her. In this case, Agent Mercury rolls the defense dice, but she counts only the results, ignoring the
results.
When the term “on hit effeCts” appears on a power or item, it means the effect described must be
applied when the owner rolls a symbol, even if the hits are canceled by the defend roll or in any
other way.
When the term “suffer[s] X Wounds” appears on a power or item, it means the damage cannot be avoided in
any way [i.e. no defend roll].
7.7.2 Devices
A secret agent without devices is like the Earth without the Sun… It cannot survive!
An agent can use his aCtion to activate one of his devices. Normally, each device can be used once per
mission. After it is used, discard the device token to the Warehouse. The device can be re-used only if the
Agency sends it to the field again, later in the game, during reinforCements.
1. ID - name and class
restriction.
2. Effect - power
3. description.
Range – maximum allowed
4. range.
Attack values – weapon
type, dice color and
number to use in the hit
roll.
7.7.2.1 grenades
Grenades are devices used to inflict damage and, most importantly, for
their special effects.
The grenade is a device, not a weapon, so the agent must spend his aCtion
[and not his ComBat] to perform the attack.
When an agent attacks with a grenade, he rolls the specified dice. All
aliens in the area must defend against any rolled as normal.
note: If at least one is rolled, the grenade’s “on hit effeCts” is applied
regardless of the alien defense results.
1. ID - name and class
restriction.
An agent with the “Grenadier” skill has two main benefits when using
2. Effect - power
grenades:
description.
3. Range – maximum
He may re-roll any die result in his hit roll with a grenade.
allowed range.
When the skill comes into play, it grants the agent 3 grenade 4. Attack values – weapon
devices [if they are available]. type, dice color and
number to use in the
hit roll.
25

7.7.2.2 sentry-gun
1. ID, name, and class restriction.
2. Attack values – weapon type, dice color
and number to use in the hit roll.
3. Range – maximum allowed range.
4. Ammo – maximum number of ammo tokens.
5. Health Points - represents the Sentry-Gun
full Health status.
6. Movement - maximum movement [in hexes] each
turn.
7. GUARD - “Guard” reaCtion ability.
A Biotech agent can use a special battle drone turret, called a Sentry-Gun, if he receives the “Sentry-
Gun” device. The Biotech can use his aCtion to deploy the drone on the battlefield. Place the Sentry-Gun
figure on any empty hex adjacent to the Biotech. Starting on his next turn, the Biotech may spend his aCtion
to perform an attack with the Sentry-Gun. The Sentry-Gun data is printed on its device tile; there is no
separate sheet for it.
The Sentry-Gun counts as a normal agent for most purposes [for example, it occupies a hex, and can be
targeted by aliens]. However, it does not have its own agent turn, it cannot move, cannot regain ammo,
cannot be healed,always has a 360° view of the battlefield [even when using the “Human View” optional
rule], and its weapon will never Jam. Also, the Sentry-Gun never takes an aliens turn and does not count
as an agent for the purpose of event cards.
When the Sentry-Gun reaches 0 hps, it is destroyed. It must be discarded and cannot be used further,
unless the Agency sends it to the field again, later in the game, during reinforCements.
The Sentry-Gun has the “Guard” reaCtion ability. This ability can be used once per game round to
perform an attack against a just-moved or revealed alien. [This attack is additional to the attack
that the Biotech may perform with the Sentry-Gun using his aCtion.]
7.7.3 Tactics
1. Type – identify a standard,
passive or reaCtion skill.
2.Effect – power description.
By acquiring experience during the game, agents will gain basic and improved tactics. These tactics
represent additional powers usable during a mission.
An agent can use his aCtion to perform a specific tactic, once per mission. When finished, flip the
used tactic face down. It will remain face down until the end of the mission, or until an event card
with the “Act of Valor” effect is drawn.
7.7.4 Abilities & Skills
1. ID – name, type, and class
restriction.
2. Type – identify a standard,
passive or reaCtion skill.
3. Effect – power description.
4. Usage – usage limitations.
Each agent begins his career with one personal ability [printed on the agent profile sheet]. During
missions, he will gain one or more skills, represented by tokens, increasing his proficiency in battle.
An agent can use his aCtion to activate one of his standard abilities or skills.
When a skill is used, flip its token face down. The skill is considered deactivated until the next
refresh phase. During the next refresh phase, flip up all used skills.
26

7.7.4.1 gd-209
1. ID – name and class restriction.
2. Attack values – weapon type, dice color
and number to use in the hit roll.
3. Range – maximum allowed range.
4. Ammo – maximum number of ammo tokens.
5. Health Points - represents the full health status.
6. Movement – the maximum movement [in hexes] per turn.
7. Energy Shield – rechargeable energy shielded armor.
A Biotech agent can use a special battle drone, the GD-209, if he acquires the “GD-209” skill.
Once in a mission, a Biotech with this skill can use his aCtion to deploy the drone on the battlefield. Place
the GD-209 figure on any empty hex adjacent to the Biotech.
Starting on his next turn, the Biotech may spend his aCtion to activate the GD-209; if so, the GD-209
immediately moves and fights.
The GD-209 relevant data is printed on its skill tile, as there is no separate sheet for it.
The GD-209 counts as a normal agent for most purposes [for example, it occupies a hex, and can be
targeted by aliens].
However, it it does not have its own agent turn, it cannot regain ammo, cannot be healed, always has a 360°
view of the battlefield [even when using the “Human View” optional rule], and its weapon will never Jam.
Also, the GD-209 never takes an aliens turn and does not count as an agent for the purpose of event cards.
When the GD-209 reaches 0 hps, it is destroyed. It must be discarded and cannot be used further in this
mission. If playing a campaign, the GD-209 can be used again in the next mission.
7.7.4.2 guard
An agent [or drone] with the “Guard” reaCtion ability can use it to attack a just-moved or revealed
alien. The attack may be performed using any available weapon, following the usual attack rules.
For instance, Agent Chromium may decide to use his Rifle [if equipped] and discard one ammo to
deal area damage.
The ability may only be used once per game round. To keep track of it, the player must put the guard token
on the map near the agent [or drone] figure, to indicate he is ready to fire. After the attack is finished,
the token must be removed.
The guard token is returned in the next refresh phase.
note: “Guard” is the default reaCtion ability of Agent Chromium and of the Biotech’s Sentry-Gun device.
7.8 GD-Wings
“That which does not kill us makes us stronger.” GD Agents must become stronger than steel to beat the
Alien challenge!
Experience may improve the abilities of an agent. In game terms, during the strategy phase, after the alpha
agent promotion, if at least one alien was killed in the previous round, each agent may try to improve his
rank by one level. Roll 3 dice to obtain results.
The number of results required to reach the next rank on the battlefield is indicated by the following
table.
gd-wings rank Enhancement Required results
copper CHARACTER ABILITY [printed on sheet] Starting Training
bronze BASIC TACTIC
silver 1st SKILL
gold IMPROVED TACTIC
palladium ELITE AGENT [flip the Agent Profile Sheet]
platinum 2nd SKILL
27

With a successful gd-Wings roll, an agent immediately obtains the enhancement listed in the table for his
or her next level. The player can freely choose a skill or tactic among the ones suitable for the class
of the agent.
During a campaign, each agent may gain a maximum of one gd-Wings rank per mission. The new rank is carried
on to the next mission. When playing a single, standalone mission, there is no limit to rank improvement.
Each agent starts the mission at the listed rank and may reach Platinum gd-Wings.
note: A campaign may indicate several other ways to improve the agent’s rank, for example completing
training missions and/or achieving specific goals in a mission.
7.9 alien tech
The Agency collects and analyzes fragments of alien technology items and weapons. The research lab works
hard to transform this knowledge into improvements for agents’ gear.
There are two ways to obtain fragments of alien teCh:
Killing Aliens - When the first alien is killed during a Battle phase, the alpha agent takes one
fragment of the alien teCh token.
Searching - A mission may indicate that an area [normally a room] may be searched. If a
result is rolled while performing a searCh action inside such an area, the alpha agent takes one
fragment of the alien teCh token.
Only one fragment of alien teCh may be gathered in each game round by
killing aliens, and one fragment by searching. This limit may be
overridden as indicated by the mission.
When all 4 alien teCh tokens are gathered, the alpha agent contacts the
Agency during reinforCements to obtain a new weapon or device directly
on the battlefield. To do so, you must spend [i.e., discard] the
four alien teCh fragments [see section 6.2.3, page 13].
note: alien teCh Fragments can also be spent during the reinforCements step of each strategy Phase to revive
dead agents [see section 7.5.3, page 21].
28

8 The Aliens
In Galaxy Defenders, the aliens are controlled by the game itself through an artificial intelligence [A.I.]
system based on 2 components:
Alien cards: These cards represent the A.I. of the alien. They indicate their movement, powers,
health points, and weapons. Each alien on the map is tied to a specific card to keep track of its
powers and hps.
Close enCounter cards: These cards are drawn by the active player at the beginning of each aliens
turn to determine which aliens must be activated.
This system gives a different behavior to each alien species, and also represents the chaos of the battle,
as the agents will not know which aliens will be activated during the next aliens turn.
8.1 Alien species
The Agency has discovered and classified several alien species.
These alien species have been classified in three color-coded power ranks.
GREEn: represents the normal form of an alien species.
BLUE: represents a more powerful form of the alien.
RED: represents the elite of an alien species... Extremely dangerous!
8.1.1 Alien I - classified: Xeno-Beta
Scout trooper, normal body mass, limited fire power. Agency studies report a moderately
aggressive combat style. They favor ranged combat. Their armor seems to allow a limited type
of regenerative power, under some circumstances.
8.1.2 Alien II - classified: Spine Critter
Quadruped alien. Their enhanced senses allow accurate human tracking. Evidence suggests that
even when dead, they may inflict damage due to their toxic blood.
8.1.3 Alien III - classified: Xeno-Alpha
Elite trooper, enhanced body mass, shielded armor, good fire and melee power. Agency studies
report an aggressive combat style. It seems to have some type of command role among the
aliens on the battlefield.
8.1.4 Alien IV - classified: Aracnos
Very fast, spider-shaped alien, equipped with a strong natural armor. It can be very
dangerous in close combat.
29

8.1.5 Alien V - classified: xeno-grey
Leader of the alien army, its lack of skill with weapons is balanced by its incredible
mental powers and its force field ability.
8.1.6 Alien VI - classified: Nexus
Biomechanical form built of an unknown, ultra-resistant metal, armed with deadly weapons.
It must be considered extremely dangerous.
8.1.7 Alien VII - classified: xeno-beast
The Agency has no significant information about this life form. Agents who contact this
Alien must exercise extreme caution.
8.2 Biological Alien Structure [ALIEN Cards]
The aliens are controlled by the game itself. Each alien is
represented by a specific alien card, to create a different
behavior for each species and rank.
Each alien card has several major sections, detailing the
alien’s movement, powers, and combat weapons.
name, Image & Color Rank [1-2]: identifies the alien species
and rank [GREEn, BLUE or RED background].
A.I. Section [4]: details the movement and fight rules of
the alien. It may also contain innate abilities influencing
the A.I.
Skills & Powers Section [3]: details the skills and powers
of the alien. Read this section carefully, because it contains
important information about the alien’s strategy. Colors
indicate the nature of each power:
BLACK - standard power
PURPLE - passive power
RED - Weapon
BLUE - reaCtion power
Additional symbols may be included to quickly understand the
nature of a power. For example:
1. Color Rank – GREEn / BLUE / RED
- The power affects the alien’s movement.
- The power activates upon the alien’s death.
rank.
2. ID – name and picture of the
Weapons Section: Lists the ranged and melee weapons used by
alien.
the alien. Each weapon is identified by the weapon type and
3. Powers - innate alien abilities.
4. A.I. – A.I. rules and powers
the dice color and number to use during the hit roll. It may
affecting the alien’s behavior.
also contain the Bolt effect or an additional power [detailed
in the Skills & Powers section of the card].
5. Ranged Weapon – name and powers.
6. Melee Weapon - name and powers.
Defense Section: May contain up to three important details;
7. Armor – normal and Bolt effect
of the armor [if any].
health points, armor special power, and rechargeable energy shielded
8. Health Points - indicates the
armor. note: the energy shield of some powerful aliens can cancel
up to two each round [as indicated by the presence of an
alien full Health status.
9. Energy Shield – rechargeable
energy shielded armor symbol].
energy shielded armor.
During the game, alien cards are drawn by a player when a signal
is revealed or when required by the mission. Each alien card
drawn is assigned to a player [see the “Alien Assignment”
section 8.8, page 35].
Players who are assigned an alien card must read the entire card, to play the alien at its best. When
the game requires alien activation, the controlling player must read the A.I. Section and apply the
first relevant behavior rule, starting with [adjacent].
30

Typically, the behavior rules are based on the distance [measured in areas] between the alien and
agents. Each behavior rule requires l.o.s. and a legal movement path.
If there is no appropriate behavior rule, the player must apply the last behavior rule on the card:
The behavior rule indicated by this symbol still requires a legal movement path, but may
ignore the l.o.s. requirement. The alien, therefore, may move toward an agent, even if it
is not able to see him.
movement and ComBat are covered later in the rules [see section 8.9, page 35, and 8.10, page 37].
movement eXAMPLES
|     |     |     | The  GREEn  | Aracnos  is  |
| --- | --- | --- | ----------- | ------------ |
The BLUE Xeno-Beta moves
| toward                  | the  Biotech  |       | also  directed            | to  move     |
| ----------------------- | ------------- | ----- | ------------------------- | ------------ |
| agent behind the dune,  |               |       | toward the Biotech agent  |              |
| even if it cannot see   |               |       | behind the dune, even if  |              |
| him.                    | It  moves     | from  | it cannot see him.        |              |
|                         |               |       | There  are                | no  wounded  |
center to center, then
| it advances forward one  |               |     | agents, so the Biotech  |             |
| ------------------------ | ------------- | --- | ----------------------- | ----------- |
| hex  to                  | be  adjacent  | to  | is  chosen              | as  target  |
the agent [see section  even if he is not wounded. The Aracnos moves
8.9, page 35]. from center to center, advancing 2 areas, then
stops, as it reaches the agent.
note: Only one behavior rule is played in each turn, even if multiple rules apply.
The artificial intelligence is designed to cover every situation on the battlefield, but, in some
instances, two or more options will be available to an alien. For instance, an alien selecting its
target for shooting or moving toward two equidistant agents. In such cases, the game asks players to
act with the mind of an alien coming to Earth with only one goal... Invasion! The alien should behave
in the most favorable way for its side and the most detrimental toward the agents.
When the alien deck runs out of cards, reshuffle the discard pile to recreate the deck.
31

8.3 Alien Activation [CLOSE ENCOUNTER Cards]
A battle is a fast sequence of chaotic actions where nothing can be easily predicted! To recreate this
atmosphere, aliens move and fight according to the drawn Close enCounter card.
1. ID - identify the Close enCounter card.
2. Effects - activation effects.
3. Danger - the card may teleport new aliens onto the map.
In the first step of the alien turn, the active player draws the top card from the Close enCounter deck.
This card may refer to:
One alien species, and/or
One alien rank color, and/or
Aliens in specific conditions [for example, wounded]
All matching aliens on the map must be activated, starting with the ones controlled by the alpha agent
and following in clockwise order.
If any player controls more than one alien, the player may choose the activation order of his aliens.
Activating an alien means reading the relevant alien card and applying the proper A.I. rule, as
described in the previous section.
If there are no matching aliens on the battlefield, the alien turn typically ends immediately.
However, some cards are marked with the danger symbol. In this case, if there are no matching
aliens on the map [as indicated by the Effects section of the card], new aliens are teleported
onto the map. Search for them in the alien deck, reshuffling it with the discard pile, if needed.
When the Close enCounter deck runs out of cards, reshuffle the discard pile to recreate the deck.
8.4 Swarm Units
Some aliens [not included in this set] may have the “Swarm” passive power. This means a single alien card
represents a group of two or more figures, counting as a single alien on the battlefield.
The main aspect of a swarm unit is the initial number of figures is always equal to its total health
points. For instance, a 3 hps swarm unit is represented by 3 figures on the map.
The activation and A.I. behavior of a swarm unit, in regard to agents, always uses the closest figure
of the unit to the agent.
32

A swarm unit must follow the same movement and combat rules of a normal alien, with the following
exceptions:
The swarm unit includes one figure for each of its starting hps. When attacked, each figure of
the swarm defends as a stand-alone alien with one HP.
When all figures of the unit die, the swarm is destroyed and its alien card is discarded as
usual.
When the swarm unit attacks, it has a clear l.o.s. to a given target, if at least one figure of
the unit has a l.o.s. with the target.
When the swarm unit moves, the nearest figure to an agent moves first and then the other
figures move adjacent to it.
An agent can target only one figure of the swarm for each attack, except when area damage is
dealt. In this case, all the figures in the targeted area are attacked.
8.5 signals
The Agency’s technology is able to detect alien movement on the battlefield. Motion detection
accurately pinpoints ground position, but is not able to provide additional information regarding the
nature of any given alien. Each agent is equipped with the technology to detect these signals.
In the game, those signals are represented by signal tokens:
Typically, during the event phase, signals appear and/or move on the map, following the movement rules
described in the next section.
A signal must be immediately revealed when it enters the l.o.s. of an agent.
signal revelation always has the highest priority in ANY phase and must be done as soon as possible.
When revealed, the signal token is flipped, according to the “Reveal Signal” rules [see 8.7, page 34].
Once revealed, a signal must be discarded to the signal discard pile, except when stated differently by
the mission rules.
During the setup of each mission, a signal reserve is created by shuffling the indicated number of alien
and human signals [faced down], as specified by the mission briefing. This will generate the pool of
signals usable for the mission and represents the maximum number of signals available on the map at the
same time.
note: When the signal reserve is empty and a signal needs to be teleported onto the map, replenish the
reserve by shuffling all the signals in the discard pile and placing them back in the reserve.
8.5.1 Signal Movement
signals follow most normal movement rules. They require a legal path to move, so they cannot move across
a BloCked hex or hex side [including loCked doors, or BloCked doors and WindoWs]. signal movement must follow
these rules:
There can be only one signal or alien in each hex.
signals move from center hex to center hex of an area. When this is not possible, signals move to
another hex in the area.
A signal must be immediately revealed when it enters the l.o.s. of an agent. Movement of the
revealed signal ends immediately.
If there is a choice between two different movements for a signal - one that causes the signal to
be revealed it and the other that doesn’t - the signal must move where it is revealed.
The signal revelation must be checked after every single movement [that is, area by area].
signals consider an unloCked door or WindoW as a standard hex or hex side.
Other signals/aliens are not considered obstacles for a legal movement path. signals can move
through them, but may not end their movement on an occupied hex.
When the game dictates movement toward the closest Teleport Point, and the signal is already
there, it will remain in its current position.
When the game dictates to “move back or move away,” it means to move in the direction where the
signal came from; or, when not possible, away from the closest agent.
If there is no legal walking path available, signals do not move.
33

8.6 Teleport System
Aliens are transported on the battlefield thanks to advanced teleport systems. This technology relies
on the presence of teleport points [t.p.] on the map.
The Agency can detect teleported aliens as unknown signals.
In game terms, when teleporting a signal onto the map:
The alpha agent rolls 1 BLUE to determine the teleport point used.
Draw a signal from the signal reserve.
Place the signal on the teleport point or on the closest hex to it [the alpha agent may decide which
one, if there is more than one suitable hex], if the t.p. is already occupied.
If there is more than one t.p. on the map, the alpha agent must roll 1 BLUE and place the new signal
on the t.p. with the symbol matching the die roll. If the symbol rolled is not present on the map,
roll the die until it matches one existing t.p.
note: The symbol takes precedence on the symbol of the same face.
8.6.1 TELEPORTING ALIENS
In some circumstances, the game may teleport aliens instead of signals. In these cases, the alpha agent
follows the normal teleport rules with the following exception: instead of taking a signal from the
signal reserve, take the matching alien card [Species and Color Rank] from the alien deck [reshuffling it
with the discard pile, if needed] and place the appropriate figure on the rolled teleport point, or on
the closest hex to it if the t.p. is already occupied.
8.7 Reveal Signals
When an agent has visual contact with a signal, the signal must be revealed. To represent this, when
there is a l.o.s. between an agent and a signal, the alpha agent or the active player must flip up the
signal token to determine if it is alien or human.
In some cases, the GD satellite computer detects false positives, tagging a human being as an alien
presence. If the revealed signal token shows a human shape, remove it from the map, or follow the relative
special mission rules.
If the token shows an alien, it must be replaced with a new alien: take the top card of the alien deck
along with the appropriate figure [see section 8.8, page 35]. In either case, once revealed, the signal
is discarded to the signal discard pile.
Revealing a signal in l.o.s. is always the highest priority in ANY phase and must be done as soon as
possible. When it occurs, the active player must pause his current activity. For instance, when the
agent moves, the l.o.s. check must be done after every single movement, hex by hex. If the agent has
visual contact with a signal, it is revealed immediately and then the agent resumes his movement.
REVEALING signal example
Agent Mercury
moves 2 hexes.
She interrupts
her movement when
she has l.o.s.
with the signal.
After revealing
it, she can
resume movement.
34

note: The normal l.o.s. rule applies for revealing signals, regardless of the “Human View” rule: A signal
in l.o.s. must be revealed, even if the agent is looking in another direction.
8.8 Alien Assignment
Each time a new alien is teleported onto the map, the alpha agent must draw the top card from the alien
deck [reshuffling the discard pile when the deck runs out of cards] along with the relevant rank figure
[GREEn, BLUE or RED]. Typically, this happens when an alien signal is revealed or when a special event
or Close enCounter card is drawn.
The new alien card must be assigned to a player. That player becomes the alien controller for the
particular alien.
To maintain game balance, the alpha agent assigns alien cards following these rules:
The card is normally assigned to the first player, in clockwise order, who does not have alien
cards, or has less alien cards assigned than other players. In case of tie, the alien card is
assigned to the alpha agent.
Exception: When a second copy of an alien card is drawn [same Species and Rank], assign it to
the same player who controls the first one. For instance, a player who controls a BLUE Xeno-
Beta is assigned the second BLUE Xeno-Beta when its card is drawn.
If all alien cards in the deck are assigned [i.e. all aliens figures are in play at the same time], no
more aliens can be teleported on the battlefield, until at least one alien dies.
Revealing a signal in these conditions has no effect except to discard the token.
8.9 Alien Movement
Alien movement is completely controlled by the alien cards. Each card details relevant instructions on
how and when to move an activated alien.
Aliens move according to their specific behavior rules, which change from alien to alien. For
instance, an aggressive species will attempt to close in quickly to enter contact with agents, while
scout troops will try to avoid melee combat.
Normal movement rules apply to aliens. For instance, they need a legal path to move, so they cannot
walk across a BloCked hex or hex side. There are some differences between the movement of aliens and
agents, indicated below.
While moving aliens, keep in mind these guidelines:
There can be only one alien or signal in each hex.
To apply a behavior rule, there must be a l.o.s. and a legal movement path. Only the rule
can be applied without l.o.s.
Aliens normally move from center hex to center hex of an area. When this is not possible or when
needed, aliens move to another hex of the area.
At the end of its movement, an alien may redeploy to any hex in the destination area, to end its
movement adjacent to agents - trying to engage the original target and as many other agents as
possibile.
Aliens may disengage from melee without an “Evade” test. They can always disengage if they are
required to do so by their A.I.
Aliens consider an unloCked door or WindoW as a standard hex or hex side.
Other aliens and agents are not considered obstacles for a legal movement path. Aliens can walk
through them, but they cannot end their movement on an occupied hex.
When the A.I. directs an alien to move toward the closest teleport point, and the alien is already
there, it will remain in its current position.
When the A.I. says to “move back or move away,” it means to move in the direction where the
alien came from; or, when not possible, away from the closest agent.
A behavior rule indicating “Move Adjacent to...” means that the alien must try to enter the
target’s area, in a hex adjacent to the target. If this is not possible, the alien must move to
an adjacent area, ending its movement in a hex adjacent to the target.
If, for any reason, the appropriate behavior rule cannot be applied, apply the next one. If no
rule can be applied, the alien remains in its current position.
35

movement eXAMPLES
The BLUE Xeno-Beta is at a distance of 1 area The GREEn Aracnos does not see any agent.
from the Infiltrator. It shoots her with its There is a wounded Biotech out of its l.o.s.,
Blaster, then moves away. and there is a legal walking path through the
unlocked door. The Aracnos advances toward the
agent. After moving 2 areas, it stops adjacent
to the Biotech.
36

8.10 Alien Combat
Each alien card also dictates the combat behavior for the relevant alien. When an A.I. rule says to
attack an agent, the player controlling the alien card takes the dice and starts combat using the
alien’s weapons and powers.
If more than one agent is eligible for attack, the alien attacks the most wounded agent. If several
agents have the same number of Wounds, it attacks the agent with the fewest remaining hps.
The combat system used for alien attacks follows the same rules explained before [see section 7.3,
page 16], with the following exceptions:
Aliens always ignore and results, as alien Weapons never Jam and do not use ammo.
The result still represents a die with no hits, but it can be re-rolled normally by an alien
with a re-roll power.
There is no alien “friendly fire.” No alien ever inflicts damage on another alien, even with
area damage weapons.
The choice of ranged or melee weapons is based on the A.I. section of the card. Remember, an attack
performed with a ranged weapon is still considered a ranged attack even when executed against an
adjacent target.
To keep track of the Wounds inflicted to each alien, Wound tokens can be placed on its alien card or near
its figure on the map.
8.11 Alien death
“If it bleeds...we can kill it!”
Aliens can be hard to kill, but that’s your goal! When an alien’s Wounds equal its total health points,
it dies. If it is the first alien killed during the round, the alpha agent takes 1 fragment of alien teCh
[see section 7.9, page 28]. The figure is removed from the map and its card is placed in the alien
discard pile.
You are now ready to play!
the invasion begins, and gd agents must get ready for
their first close encounter...
it’s time to start reading the storybook and playing
your first mission
37

And, last but not least, we wish to thank each of
our Kickstarter backers, who helped us to crea-
te and shape Galaxy Defenders!
Galaxy Defenders Anders Pedersen Chris Rennie Eduardo Korsgaard Jason Lee
|     | Andre Ohlhoff | Chris Rivers | Edward Calabig | Jason Liswood |
| --- | ------------- | ------------ | -------------- | ------------- |
Matej Satovic Andrea Cupido Chris Szymanski Edward Parks Jason Shrapnel
Mykalson
|     | Andrea Giuliani | Chris Tham | Edward Sagritalo | Jay Berry |
| --- | --------------- | ---------- | ---------------- | --------- |
Russell Lee Andreas Monitzer Chris Woods Eileen Lee Jeff Fields
Samuel Svanda Andres Hernandez Baldovi Christian Nauheimer Elijah Kautzman Jeffrey Andres Williams
Andres Samaniego Christian Nord Emilio G. Acevedo Jeffrey Owen
Stefan Frey
Stefan Zappe Andrew Carlstrom Christine Biancheria Enrico Salvato Jeffrey S. Risdon
|     | Andrew Caudill - SCC | Christopher Bourassa | Eric | Jeffrey Smith |
| --- | -------------------- | -------------------- | ---- | ------------- |
Earth Defenders Andrew Cowen Christopher Brennan Eric Berglund Jemearl Smith
Cape Fear Games Andrew Diaz Christopher Cowles Eric Eckstein Jennifer Abe
|     | Andrew Goldman | Christopher Islaub | Eric Heine | Jerad Grimes |
| --- | -------------- | ------------------ | ---------- | ------------ |
Chris Robbins Andrew J. Hayford Christopher Perkins Eric Johnson Jeremy Copley
Ed Kiernan Andrew Park Christopher Roche Eric Ludy Jeremy Maule
LPG sas Andrew Sekela Christopher Sziklas Eric Tewell Jerry Tresman
Andrew Stingel Chuck Morrill Erik Berglund Jianxiong Alvin Ong
| squads       | Andy Dunks | Cid Sugioka   | Erik Volkert | Jimmy Dillon   |
| ------------ | ---------- | ------------- | ------------ | -------------- |
|              | Andy Smith |               |              | Joanna Griebel |
| Angelo Ricci |            | Clark Lovrien | Eugene Koh   |                |
Kolby Reddish Anna Patrone Claudio Marinelli Evan Rattner Joao Pedro Sffair
|     | Anthony Mastrangeli | Clay Skaggs | Ewan Anderson | Joe Fredo |
| --- | ------------------- | ----------- | ------------- | --------- |
Larry Chia Anthony Olver Clemens Zeilinger Fabian Kern Joe Held
Shannon Espinoza
|     | Anthony Rubbo | Cliff Hutton | Fabian Storck | Joe Kadisak |
| --- | ------------- | ------------ | ------------- | ----------- |
Stefan Frey  Antoni Iuliu Ludovic Clinton Hosford Fabien Mieyeville Joe Passingham
Taylor Grow Antonio Alvarado Herrera Colin Peake Fabrice Masson Joel Lim
|                | Antonio De Rosa | Connie Villalobos |                   | Joel Simard |
| -------------- | --------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- | ----------- |
| armored agents |                 |                   | Fabricio Ferreira |             |
|                | Antonio Mendoza | Craig Hackl       | Federico Luison   | John Akin   |
Adam Walck Antony Spencer Cristian Meloni Felipe Ricardo Machado John Bruns
Arnold Shunneson Cristian Muscatello Felix Le Rouzes John Burkett
Chris Baginski
Mathias Desbois Ashley Gardiner Curtis Thornock Felix Munoz John DiMaio
Drew Grgich Atticus Gifford Curtis Yu Fernando ML Benavidez John DiPonio
|     | Avi Zacherman | D. Braza | Francesco Neri | John F Pachin |
| --- | ------------- | -------- | -------------- | ------------- |
Gary H. Wishik, M.D. Barowski, Alexander D.J. Cole John Falcon
| Gary McGrath |     |     | Francis Gagnon |     |
| ------------ | --- | --- | -------------- | --- |
Ian ONeil Bastian Diedrich Dakota Wolff Nicolucci Francis Garot John Hodgkinson
|     | Ben Croft | Dale Hall | Francis Guilbeault | John Ibarzabal |
| --- | --------- | --------- | ------------------ | -------------- |
J. Quincy Sperber Ben Hansen Damean Rendell Francis Polach John Jones
James Perlmutter
Jeffery Murphy Ben Thornton Damian Mainka Frank Branham John Lambert
| Kevin Lai | Ben Wenger     | Damien Laing     | Frank Karl     | John Meeks    |
| --------- | -------------- | ---------------- | -------------- | ------------- |
|           | Bendik Vedeler | Damon Richardson | Franklin Scott | John Przylepa |
Marco Moia Benjamin Arnault Dan Derby Fredrik Warnberg John Retrum
Matthew Dive
Michael Hurst Benjamin Bement Dan Porter G. Michael Bridge John Rivera
|     | Benjamin Fowler | Dan Senne | Gabriel Vasquez | John Ross |
| --- | --------------- | --------- | --------------- | --------- |
Nicole Holland Benjamin Norest Daniel Blackburn Gabriele Guerre John Simpson
| Roberto Poli |                      |               |                 | John Steemson |
| ------------ | -------------------- | ------------- | --------------- | ------------- |
| Roy Davis    | Benjamin Steinhauser | Daniel Imbach | Garry Shortland |               |
|              | Bill Nadey           | Daniel Kirk   | Gary Gilliam    | John Sterle   |
Ryan Johnson Billy Jackson Daniel Koehl Geoffrey Briggs John Talcott
Sam Blackwell Billy Lee Daniel Magnan Geoffrey Ford John Wilson
Silvia Illari
Sizyakin Artem Bobby Rappolt Daniel Molina Geoffrey Squire John Woollard
Bobby Warren Daniel Plantenberg Geoffroy Emain Johnathan Palmer
Tim Burnett Brad Barrett Daniel Reece George M. Gibbs Jr. Jon Francum
| Tim Overkamp | Brad Kane |               |               | Jon Greisz |
| ------------ | --------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
|              |           | Daniel Urdzik | Gerard Martel |            |
Timothy Reed Brad Zepecki Daniel Vandenbor Gianluca Troiani Jon White
Bradley Pflugh Daniele Di Mattia Gilbert Camama Jonathan Apuan
TEAMS Brandon Barlow Darryl Jam Gilbert D. Fussell Jonathan Loyd
Aaron Wood Braxton Nevares Daryl Bewley Glen Green Jonathan Tang
Donald Christianson Brent Johnson Daryl McLeod Glen Howard Joris Doucet
Duane Crago Brent Lloyd Daryl Tay Howe Liang Grant Stewart Jose Vargas
|                 | Brent Matyas | Dave Horn |             | Joseph Estepa |
| --------------- | ------------ | --------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| Eddie Villaluna |              |           | Greg Merwin |               |
Frank Clark (Ecolin) Brenton Tester Dave Rancourt Gregoire Thillay Joseph Lau Kong Kin
Jason Stealey Bret Kelsey Dave Rancourt Gregory Frank Joseph S Forster
Brett Lea Dave Skogstad Guilherme Chaves Corrêa Joseph Tonizzo
John “Jack” Onstott
Jon Shelky Brett Lopez David Acton Guillaume Joseph Zakszewski
Jorge Luis Aldana Brett Orr David Alton Gustavo Russo Josh Glover
Mark Jimenez Brian Bishop David Bezio Gwo-Yueh Rudolf Kuo Josh Herreshoff
|     | Brian Hunt | David Bolegoh | Hector Rivera | Josh Kaufman |
| --- | ---------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------ |
Patrick R Leacock
Phil Christiansen Brian Jarzyna David C Mason Heiko Waelde Josh Payne
Scott Alden Brian Lucier David Douglas Henrik Schmidt Josh Utley
|     | Brian Monroe | David Doutch | Herb Leist | Josh Wilson |
| --- | ------------ | ------------ | ---------- | ----------- |
Ted Elrick
Tim Titsworth Brian Perch David Finn herbert seifert Joshua Hernandez
|     | Brian Sass | David Fuentes | Holger Presch | Joshua Krzych |
| --- | ---------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
ELITE agents Brian Severson David Hoffmann Howard Li Joshua Lloyd
Brian Van Dyk David Huet Hugo Machado dos Santos Joshua Mosher
Aaron Phillips
Aaron Seymour Brian West David Hughart I Heath Julian Sotirov
|     | Brooks Murrell | David J Solie | I.E. Tegel | Justin Bagley |
| --- | -------------- | ------------- | ---------- | ------------- |
Adam Bacon Bruno Ferrarini David Joyce Ian Dimitri Justin Barnes
| Adam Brown   | Bruno Maros de Borobia |              |                 | Justin Edwards |
| ------------ | ---------------------- | ------------ | --------------- | -------------- |
| Adam Canning |                        | David McAvoy | Igor Shtaynagel |                |
Bruno Sérgio Ramos Pires David Miller Ingo Arendt Justin Green
Adam Coker Bryan Boothe David Rapp Inkari Coelho Bonilha Justin Hall
Adam Floerchinger Bryan Hehmann David Schoenmann Ipacs Zsolt Kai Pusch
Adam Girardo
Adam Hennings Bryant Ross David Sussman Jack Cameron Keith Dennard
|     | Bryce Nielsen | David Wolfe | Jack Gulick | Keith Kikawa |
| --- | ------------- | ----------- | ----------- | ------------ |
Adam kennah C Matt Pappathan David Zimmerman Jack McNaughton Kelvin Marn
| Adam Pinto   | Cameron Esfahani | Davide Cazzadore |            | Ken Hiseler |
| ------------ | ---------------- | ---------------- | ---------- | ----------- |
| Adam Rapkins |                  |                  | Jake Kainu |             |
|              | Cara Tucker      | Deacon Wardlow   | Jake Rose  | Ken Shannon |
Adam Sadler Carlos Bruno Alves Dennis Karaffa James Dundas Kendon Bagley
Adam Tucker Carlos Daniel Muñoz Diaz Deon Beswick James Grimley Kenneth Thronberry
Adam Wilson
Aksel Palm Carlos Elvécio Aparecido  Derek Jankowski James King JR Kenny Perry Jr.
|     | Santos | Derek Kuper | James McHugh | Kevin Appleby |
| --- | ------ | ----------- | ------------ | ------------- |
Alain Marti Carlos Garcia Leiva Derrek B Kyzar James Molloy Kevin Benoit
Alan Baxter Carlos Oliveira Diana Nati James S Hodge Kevin Stover
Alan DeCamp
Alan Smith Carlos Sandico IV Diepenrijkx Mark James Smith Kevin W. Brennan
|     | Carter Brent | Dirk Grabenkamp | James Weber | Kyle Buckingham |
| --- | ------------ | --------------- | ----------- | --------------- |
Alberto Bonfanti Casie Davis Dirk Johnson James Wickline Kyle Grindling
Alessandro Melchionno
Alessio Andreoli Chad Mauch Donald Lovejoy James Wilkinson Kyle Pinches
|     | Charles gomez | Donall Tansey | James Young | Kyle Shults |
| --- | ------------- | ------------- | ----------- | ----------- |
Alex de Burgh Charles Stoll Doug Childs Jamie Smith Lance Hinkel
| Alex Hunt  | Chi Chui | Dr Adrian Bai | Jared Kinkade | Lance King |
| ---------- | -------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
Alex Parker
Alex Rosenwald Chris Banaszak Dr R J Fluck Jared Orlando Larry Rice
|     | Chris Clarke | Dr Thomas Schmid | Jason Chen | Lars Holgaard |
| --- | ------------ | ---------------- | ---------- | ------------- |
Alexander Chang Chris Congemi Duane Omes Jason Connerley Laura Burns
Alexandre Rivaben Justino Chris Herbert Jason Detmers Leandro Ferreira
| Alton Yoshii |                 | Dustin D Cameron |               |                 |
| ------------ | --------------- | ---------------- | ------------- | --------------- |
|              | Chris Monestero | Dustin Robb      | Jason Goodman | Lecompte Arnaud |
Alywin Fruge Chris Nagati Ed Kowalczewski Jason Hayes Lee Chek Tin
| Amie Lin | Chris Page | Ed Maranville | Jason Jibben | Lee Fisher |
| -------- | ---------- | ------------- | ------------ | ---------- |
Anders H. Pedersen
|     | Chris Port | Eddy Marquez | Jason Krish | Leo Sebastiano |
| --- | ---------- | ------------ | ----------- | -------------- |
38

Lieve Nachtegael Patrik Swärd Steven McCreery Erik Lind Troy Stram
Lindsey Doyle Paul Brelsford Stuart Fern Erik Oliver Vincent E. Hoffman
Liz de Burgh Paul Cuaresma Stuart Gairns Gary Overmoyer Walter Smith
Lois M Zaleski Paul Haswell Stuart Glanville Gary Tanigawa William Retert
| Lorenzo Pallotti | Paul Sacco | Stuart Lister | George Breden |     |
| ---------------- | ---------- | ------------- | ------------- | --- |
Loris Zanotto Paul Simmons Suman Subramaniam Greg Francisco Scientists
| Louis Morneau | Peggy Carpenter | Summer Lui    | Gregory Dalesandre |                |
| ------------- | --------------- | ------------- | ------------------ | -------------- |
| Loyko Mikhail |                 |               |                    | Ann D. Christy |
|               | Pete Millen     | Sven Sierwald | Ian Beck           | April Walter   |
Lucas Crosby Peter Baxter Teik Chooi Oh Jack Hearon Brian Gautrey
| Lucas Spears | Peter Little | Terry Simo | Jacob Bazar |     |
| ------------ | ------------ | ---------- | ----------- | --- |
Lucio Abbate Peter Oggelsby Theo Clarke Jacob Cain Chris Sanny
Chris Severs
Luis H. Bernabe, III Phillip Fatka Thibaut De Balmain James A. Brown Davlo Wandzek
Lukas Doubravsky Phillip Greenberg  Thierry De Gagne James Antell George Gibbs
| Luke Passingham | Pierre Lanrezac | Thomas Heinig  | James McCann |             |
| --------------- | --------------- | -------------- | ------------ | ----------- |
| Luke Platfoot   |                 |                | James Otto   | Holly Straw |
|                 | Pierre Therrien | Thomas Kandris |              | Ivy Arkfeld |
Mads Schultz Quintin Ang Thomas Lange James Strider James Masterton
Manfred Laner Rand Chua TL Thomas Willoughby Jamieson Colburn
Marc von Canal Randall Fischer Thorben Wöhler Jason Cookingham James Wallett
Jason Gifford
Marc-Andre Weber Randy Lofton Tim Danley Jason Gifford Jenny Haddad Mosher
Marcel Vermeulen Raphael Barilaro Tim McFadden Jason Hartman Jeremy F. Carey
Marcelo Souza Raphael Menezes do Nascimento Tim Wilson Jason Raczkowski
| Marco Brugnoni | Raymond Beckmann |              | Jason Roberts | John Whitehair   |
| -------------- | ---------------- | ------------ | ------------- | ---------------- |
|                |                  | Timo Stepper |               | Kee Blaszczynski |
Marco Grillini Raymond Lee Timothée Licitri Jay Lee Krissie McJohnson
Marc-Olivier Fafard Rebecca Truax Timothy Kasprzak Jed Wegner
Marcus Arena Reeuws Bruno Timothy Willis Jeff Schwartz Kyra Davis
Leighton Martz
Marcus Lindberg Reiner Perillo Tiziano D’Urbano Basile Jeff Tilden Lily Vandenbor
Marcus Polk Renato Nunes Cosentino To Chi Fung Jeff Yeackle Mark Dillon
Mario Kaschulla Richard Gissing Tobias Schindler Jeffery Proia
Mark Anderson Richard Guerrero Toby de Burgh Jeffrey M. Trumbore Michael Haven
Michael Tanigawa
Mark Curtis Richard Hsu Tod Sistrunk Jeffry Hoffman Morien Wyn Jones
| Mark Freeman | Richard Jenkin | Todd Hayes | Jeffry Welfare |     |
| ------------ | -------------- | ---------- | -------------- | --- |
Mark Hom Richard Kai Tom Hanks Jennifer E Kuipers Rebecca Francisco
Rob Marti
Mark Horneff  Richard Linnell Tommy Runesson Jeremiah Wright Ryan White
Mark J. Muir Richard Reid Tony Tran Jessica Honeycutt Shaun Yin
| Mark Mirchandani | Richard Valente | Tracy Bennett | Jim Just Jr. |     |
| ---------------- | --------------- | ------------- | ------------ | --- |
Mark Padding Rick Collins Travis Botts John  Barnes Tammy Stencel
Thomas Scott
| Mark Screen | Ricky Tafoya | Travis Myers | John Cobb | Trenf Fadden |
| ----------- | ------------ | ------------ | --------- | ------------ |
Mark Somogyi Rob Lugton Travis Skinner John Czahor Ty Triebenbach
| Mark Vabulas         | Rob McCord     | Trent Carr      | John Harris   |            |
| -------------------- | -------------- | --------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
| Markus Canz          |                |                 | John Sullivan | Supporters |
|                      | Rob Yan        | Troels Pedersen |               |            |
| Marshall Scott Veach | Robert Bushell | Troy Ryder      | John Trobare  |            |
Martin Osswald Robert Davis Troy Stram Jonathan Bagelman Aaron Beard
Massimiliano Cretara Robert De Luna Tyler Yazzie Jonathan Pearson Adam
Adam J Marquis
| Massimo Rolli | Robert DiChiara | Tyson B. Cram | Jordan Wiklund |     |
| ------------- | --------------- | ------------- | -------------- | --- |
Mathieu Lapierre Robert Iversen Vasileios Kakkos Joseph Rhodes Alessandro Milanesi
Matt Branstad Robert Iwan Vasilis Foukarakis Josh Carey Alessio Molteni
| Matt Hendricks | Robert Johnson |                     | Josh Gilzow   | Andrea Buffardi   |
| -------------- | -------------- | ------------------- | ------------- | ----------------- |
|                |                | Víctor Ortiz López  |               | Andrey Skidchenko |
| Matt Rollefson | Robert Macary  | Villars Alain       | Josh Willhite |                   |
Matthew Aaron Robert McKeagney Vinson Hum Justin Steurich Anna Patrone
Matthew Chang Robert Mitchell Vitaly Fedyunin Justin Tomlinson Antonella Palumbo
Ben Carlton
Matthew Compton Robert Scott Clark Walter Gagajewski Keith Ambrose Ben Misky
Matthew Evans Robert Wilson Walter Mulder Kenneth Scheuber Jr
Matthew Hendron Robert Yee Wayde Zalken Kenneth Wu Berit Larsen
Matthew Kokaly Robin Eriksson Wayne Foley Kevin Billman Betsy
Bill Reaser
| Matthew McMahon | Robin Simons | Wayne Kaufman | Kevin Erskine |     |
| --------------- | ------------ | ------------- | ------------- | --- |
Matthew Rini Rogerio de Leon Pereira Wei Jen Seah Kevin Meeks Brian Coultrup
Matthew Ryan Rolf Laun Wesley Hayward Kevin Vreeland Cameron Case
|     |     |     | Kevin Wu | Corradino Milone |
| --- | --- | --- | -------- | ---------------- |
Matthias Fröschl Ron Baalke Wesley Steeves Daniel Ferreira Caldas
| Matthieu Schloesing | Ron Charity | Will Leader | Marc Yablon |     |
| ------------------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | --- |
Maxfield Stewart Ron Musial William Klose Mark Fadden Daniele “Kinder” Rea
Maxwell Frattolin Ronald Rector William Payne Mark Hanna Darius du Plessis
Data Care Srl
Maykel Dos Santos Braz Ross Kristjuhan William Reger Mark Madden
| Megan Ortiz | Roy Tan | William Wenz | Mark Sautman | Dave M. |
| ----------- | ------- | ------------ | ------------ | ------- |
Michael Baskal Russell Granberry  William Woodyard Mat Courtemanche Erich Eichner
| Michael Boehm    |                 |                | Matt Wolf       | Fabio Polidori         |
| ---------------- | --------------- | -------------- | --------------- | ---------------------- |
|                  | Ryan Callbeck   | Willow Palecek |                 | Gustavo Larsen Ciorlia |
| Michael Buchanan | Ryan Hockemeyer | Wily Madsen    | Matthew Jackson |                        |
Michael Burcham Ryan Nakagawa Wolfgang Weber Matthew T Strand Isaac ‘Will It Work’
| Michael Corcoran | Sacha Mallais  |               | Michael Damecour  | Dansicker      |
| ---------------- | -------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------------- |
|                  |                | ROOKIE agents |                   | Joe Tweddell   |
| Michael Dore     | Sai Hong Cheng |               | Michael Fanno     |                |
| Michael Eichner  | Sam Kenkel     |               | Michael Pelletier | Joerg Haarmann |
Michael Ellis Samuel Brana-Soto Aaron Belmer Michael Potter Jordan Kyle Sirven
Michael Harper Sante Boscolo Chio Adam Barnes Michael Van Biesbrouck Joseph Gardner - Sky Crystal
Arts Miniature and Terrain
| Michael J Mount | Sarah Bergstrom | Andrea Magiera | Mike Daneman |     |
| --------------- | --------------- | -------------- | ------------ | --- |
Michael Knecht Sarah Reed Andrew McGrath  Mike Houser Joseph Propati
Michael Lucas Scott Arens Anthony Dickey Mike Malley JP Manzana
|                 |              | Anthony Donisi |                  | Juliano de Souza Silva |
| --------------- | ------------ | -------------- | ---------------- | ---------------------- |
| Michael McNally | Scott Borror |                | Morgan Westbrook | Kyle Cherry            |
| Michael Meador  | Scott Miller | Bill Caro      | Nathan Amor      |                        |
Michael Morris Scott Seidler Blaise Brossard Nathan Green Leigh Marritt
Michael S. Pitcher Sean Pearson Brendan Burchell Nathan Lax Luca Petrone
|                 |              | Brian Cwikla |                      | M Stacy |
| --------------- | ------------ | ------------ | -------------------- | ------- |
| Michael Schultz | Sean Pollman |              | Nathaniel Hollibaugh |         |
Michael Zorn Sean Sicher Brian Koch Patrick Dieveney Marco Signore
Michel Magali Sean Smith Brian Richards Patrick Petersen Mario Barbati
|     |     | Bryan A. Watson |     | Mark Taormino |
| --- | --- | --------------- | --- | ------------- |
Mickey Nuttall Sebastiaan Kok Paul Schneider Massimiliano Calimera
| Mike Gasch | Sebastian Spatzek | Byron Campbell | R. A. Ferrara |     |
| ---------- | ----------------- | -------------- | ------------- | --- |
Mike Gingold Shane Steely C. Brian Bucklew Rich Kirkland Matiee
Mike Winingham Shannon Wade Charles Pearson Robert Kuster Mike Wilkie
|                 |                 | Chris Tokashiki |               | Nati Leonardo |
| --------------- | --------------- | --------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Miles Cheverton | Shaun McMenamin |                 | Robert Skeens |               |
Miles Matton Sheila Davis Christopher Hoganson Robert Stencel Paolo Mantoan
Mirko Zennaro Shelby Mehl Christopher Reeley Rodolfo Mastrapasqua Paolo Palma
| Mor Furshpan |                     | Christopher Rogers | Roger Martin | Paul          |
| ------------ | ------------------- | ------------------ | ------------ | ------------- |
|              | Simone Consolazione |                    |              | Peter Schnare |
Murl Trainham Sizyakin Artem Christopher Schwarzott Ron Clark
Nadav Abramovitz Smykalin Vladimir Christopher Stockdale Ron Davis Rodney Hussmann
Nancy Durgin Sonia de Llanos Clayton Helme Rory Sheehan Sally & Sunny
|                |                | Cliff Fuhrman |             | Sannop2 |
| -------------- | -------------- | ------------- | ----------- | ------- |
| Nancy Hutchins | Sophie Lacroix |               | Ruby Harvey |         |
Nathan Brown Spencer Marstiller Corey Coleman Russell Miller Serena Galli
Nathan Zacharias Spencer Olson Damon Asher Ryan Eng Silvana Albesiano
Neal Rideout Stacy Braxton Dan Thurot Ryan Strong Silvio Torre
Simone Pesenti Gritti
| Neil Christiansen | Stefano Castelli | Dan Webb | Samuel Polio |     |
| ----------------- | ---------------- | -------- | ------------ | --- |
Ng Hon Chung Stefano Luca Brambilla Daniel Blackwell Scott Ferrier Steve B
Nicholas Vitek Stephan Szabo Daniel Drickman  Scott Zirngible Thomas Palzer
|              |              | Darrel Raines |             | Victor Bugg |
| ------------ | ------------ | ------------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Nick Kolacia | Stephen Hill |               | Sean Brulet |             |
Nick Stier Stephen Montgomery David Carrus Sebastien Hahn Vincent Arebalo
| Nicola Atti | Stephen Phung | David Felton | Shan Yin | Vincent Chan |
| ----------- | ------------- | ------------ | -------- | ------------ |
Nicolas Macler Stephen Seefeld David Newport Shawn MacFarland vonDorffy
|                   |                 | David Pearson |               | Wayne Pereanu |
| ----------------- | --------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Nikiforov Nikolay | Sterling Brucks |               | Stephen Honea |               |
Noah Caldwell Steve Benton David Villa Stephen Wandzek XanderV
Noel Wilkinson Steve Caltagirone Donald Poynter Steve Vrooman
Donovan Corrick
| Olivier Prévot   | Steve Cox     |                 | Steven Howland  |     |
| ---------------- | ------------- | --------------- | --------------- | --- |
| Omar Luigi Ruoti | Steve Elliott | Doug Cleland    | Steven Mott     |     |
| Pascal Roux      | Steve Gale    | Doug Law        | Steven Pulido   |     |
| Pasquale Priolo  | Steve Hamm    | Dustin Crenshaw | Stuart Campbell |     |
Dustin Schwartz
| Patrick Dolan    | Steve Laubner   |                 | Timothy Schroeder |     |
| ---------------- | --------------- | --------------- | ----------------- | --- |
| Patrick Joynt    | Steve McEwan    | Dwayne Sherrard | Tina Quinones     |     |
| Patrick Knightly | Steven Chandler | Eric L Wills    | Todd Hough        |     |
| Patrick Stangier |                 | Eric Schuld     | Tony Nguyen       |     |
Steven J Willson
39

V. 1.5
Home Page: www.galaxy-defenders.com
e-mail: info@gremlinproject.com